New events documentation (#760)
Altinn/altinn-studio-docs: content/events/_index.en.md

---
title: Events
description: Description of the Events capabilities in Altinn 3.
toc: true
weight: 20
aliases:
 - /altinn-events/
---

{{% notice warning  %}}
This section of the documentation is a work in progress. 

> Be adviced there might be  missing or partial documentation related to some sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are sections with missing or only partial documentation.
```

{{% /notice %}}

## Design goals

> Altinn Events was developed to make it easier for digital service developers to deliver dynamic and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Altinn Events was developed to make it easier for service developers to deliver dynamic and 
```

> seamless user experiences, based on data from multiple systems of record. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seamless user experiences, based on data from multiple systems. 
```

Altinn Events provides developers a simple route to adding event-driven architecture to their existing 

> service-oriented applications.Secure and scaleable, Altinn Events uses Publish/Subscribe concepts to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
service-oriented applications. Secure and scalable, Altinn Events use Publish/Subscribe concepts to 
```

a mechanism for encapsulating additional message payload, such as XML or binary encoded data.

Here is an example of a typical event:

```
{
    "id":"eae8d8a7-4659-43c0-83cd-42f673eff8cf",
    "source":"https://someservice.com/rest/path/object-id-1234",
    "specversion":"1.0",
    "type":"app.instance.created",
    "subject":"/party/50019855",
    "time": "2022-05-12T00:02:07.541482Z"
}
```

Here is an example of an event publish through Altinn: 

```
{
    "id":"eae8d8a7-4659-43c0-83cd-42f673eff8cf",
    "source":"https://someservice.com/rest/path/object-id-1234",
    "specversion":"1.0",
    "type":"app.instance.created",
    "resource":"urn:altinn:resource:someservice.resource",
    "resourceinstance":"object-id-1234"
    "subject":"/party/50019855",
    "time": "2022-05-12T00:02:07.541482Z"
}
```
Note the new properties _resource_ and  _resourceinstance_.

In addition to adhering to the specification, cloud events published through Altinn Events must include
a set of Altinn specific extension attributes used to enable authorization of events 
and support easier filtering of events for subscribers. 

## A note about standards

#### Why Cloud Events?

> Basing our API on the Cloud Event standard ensures consistent support across [programming languages](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec#sdks), operating systems and network stacks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basing our API on the CloudEvent specification ensures consistent support across [programming languages](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec#sdks), operating systems and network stacks. 
```

This same standard has been adopted by many cloud providers and a growing number of independent solution providers. 

The official specification defines a scaleable approach to versioning and extensions, opening possibilities for future capabilities in a backwards compatible fashion.

## Who can use Altinn Events?

Publishing of events is limited to Altinn apps at the moment. 
We are working on extending this service to additional parties such as application owners and other parties during the 
spring of 2023. Maskinporten authentication will be required in order to publish events on our platform.

Subscribing to events is openly available to end users, end user systems and application owners. 

> Once additional parties gain access to publishing, the right to subscribe to events published through Altinn Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once additional parties gain access to publishing, the right to subscribe to events published through Altinn
```

will be generally available to the public.*

> \* Subscriptions will need to be authorized by the publisher, and Altinn's terms and conditions will have to be 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Subscriptions will need to be authorized by the publisher, and Altinn's terms and conditions will have to be 
```
